---
layout: post
title: "New Perspectives on Language and Intelligence"
date: 2026-01-02 19:00:00 +0800
---
Is it impossible to model human symbolic activity? Have the latest large language models successfully replicated human language and intelligence? What is the most effective approach to achieving AGI? Furthermore, can we develop a deeper understanding of language and intelligence? The book 'A Study of Language and Intelligence through the Lens of Symbolic Medium' offers different perspectives on these issues. However, as the author reflects on new content and interprets numerous concepts from various fields in unusual contexts, the book may be challenging to comprehend. This article provides a brief introduction to and discussion of the work. 

The book posits the fundamental notion that if the symbolic medium or system of symbolic media is different, then the physical properties of the medium that can be utilized and the physical manipulations for the medium that can be developed will also differ. Consequently, the manner in which symbols are employed differs, resulting in different symbolic activities and their effects. This viewpoint has informed historical analyses of symbolic activities and predicted their future trajectories, primarily in relation to visual symbols.

In order to illustrate this viewpoint, it is first necessary to define the terms 'symbolic medium', 'symbolic medium tools', 'symbolic medium fields', and 'symbolic media systems' (a collective term). The fundamental issue is the recognition that the utilization of symbols necessitates the physical manipulation of the symbolic medium, thereby yielding perceivable symbolic expressions.

The book proposes that three distinct modes of symbol manipulation have historically emerged in succession. The first is construction. The observation of human infants in their early stages of language acquisition reveals that they initially utter single, everyday words. Furthermore, observational studies consistently demonstrate that vocally communicating animals typically produce one syllable at a time, repeating it two or three times, and often varying the tone and pitch. These phenomena illustrate this mode of manipulation.

The second mode of manipulation is combination. In contradistinction to other species, humans possess the remarkable capacity to produce multiple syllables in a single utterance, with each time comprising a different set of syllables.  The capacity to discern and combine different syllables is dependent on the convergence of human vocal abilities and intelligence. The book puts forward the hypothesis that the primary mechanism underlying all natural languages is the formation of regularities that govern the linear combination of symbols. This hypothesis is derived from a comprehensive analysis of English and Chinese.

The third mode of manipulation is substitution. This constitutes a central argument of the book, linking the content of the various chapters. Substitution can be defined as a continuous process of secondary combination. The initial combination outcome comprises a part, designated as A, which is then replaced by B in the subsequent combination, while the other components remain unchanged. Substitution is not systematically employed in spoken language due to the limitations of human memory. However, in the domain of written language, the enduring nature of symbols functions as an ancillary memory aid, thereby facilitating substitution to evolve incrementally over time. 

This prompts a discourse on the properties of symbols. The book proposes that stativity constitutes the most fundamental property of the symbols currently in use. The invariance of the form of the symbolic medium indicates the identity of the corresponding concepts, thereby forming the psychological basis for their use. The symbol's enduring property is relative and contingent on its static property; written symbols are evidently more durable than sound symbols. The properties emphasized by traditional linguistics, such as discreteness, are associated with a greater element of deliberate choice. 

Secondly, this also leads to an examination of symbolic medium tools, medium fields, or medium systems. The properties exhibited by symbols are ultimately the utilization of the physical nature of the symbolic medium by the symbol medium system. In the paper-and-pen symbolic medium system, the stream of symbols generated in a temporal sequence can be transformed into a static distribution within a two-dimensional space. This transformation is of such significance that any praise would not be excessive; it constitutes the foundation of substitution, allowing more symbols to stably and nonlinearly aggregate to express complex ideas or operations, and so on.

What are the implications of substitution? To understand this, it is first necessary to understand the research focus of this book. The primary objective of this study is to explore symbolic activities in the context of cognition. Although natural language is not solely employed for cognition, its cognitive role undoubtedly forms the basis for effective communication. Moreover, theoretical work in logic, mathematics, and science can also be viewed through the lens of symbolic activity. Consequently, the theme of symbolic activity transcends traditional disciplinary boundaries. The book's argument is developed primarily by comparing differences in symbolic activity between natural language and science (broadly defined to include logic, mathematics, the natural sciences, and the social sciences).

The book proposes that the systematic utilization of substitutions is a defining feature of symbolic activity in contemporary science. The following arguments are posited in support of this assertion. Theories in all sciences are established through the application of logic and mathematics. Indeed, all other branches of mathematics can be reduced to arithmetic and propositional logic. The foundational principles of these systems are rooted in operational laws, computational tables, tautologies, and analogous elements. These elements are expressed using symbols such as '=', '=>', and '⇔'. Beyond their role as static statements of propositions, these symbols also indicate substitution manipulations during processes. This mechanism is referred to as the equivalence-substitution principle in the book. Despite considerable advances in contemporary mathematics giving rise to more fundamental branches, such as set theory and category theory, the book argues that these remain constructions and deductions based on the same manipulations, as nothing has changed at the level described herein.

Symbolic activities in the cognitive domain ultimately form a set of symbols and their expressions that reflect the outcomes of human cognition, and frequently manifest as axiom systems. Natural language was originally used to express common sense. The objective of symbolic activity in various scientific disciplines is to accurately and comprehensively reflect the surrounding world and ourselves. The book also discusses the types of cognition reflected by logic and mathematics. Subsequent to the process of symbolization, knowledge can be verified, communicated, shared, and continually developed. 

The cognitive outcomes are reflected in the symbols, which suggest that cognitive activity involves the establishment of a type of mapping between the objects being recognized and the symbols used to represent them. During this process, thoughts do not simply run rampant; rather, continual clarification of facts is required, as well as the construction and application of symbols, to achieve matching. It is important to recognize that the construction and application of these symbols are influenced by existing modes of symbol manipulation, which in turn shape the mappings that can be established.

This prompts a discourse on the subject of human intelligence. The book proposes that human intelligence comprises three successive aspects. The first is innate intelligence, evolved through heredity. However, this aspect is not discussed in detail; it only mentions the limitations of our innate abilities, particularly in terms of perception range and memory capacity. The second aspect pertains to impression intelligence, which is predicated on innate intelligence and involves the processing of impressions or representations as its objects, such as image thinking. The third aspect pertains to symbolic intelligence, which is characterized by the fact that symbols themselves become the objects of processing. If representations are not considered a form of language, then symbolic intelligence is a uniquely human trait that did not exist before the emergence of language and is irreversible thereafter.

The evolution of human common sense is initiated at the stage of impression intelligence, or even earlier. However, it is important to recognize the limitations of common sense, which stem directly from the finite nature of our inherent abilities. Natural language, which primarily employs construction and combinatorial methods, provides a static description. The manifestation of common sense in natural language is most evident in everyday vocabulary and commonly used sentences. It has been frequently observed that common sense is latent within the human brain, only to be expressed in natural language when required, and this expression greatly simplifies the common sense itself.

The expression of natural language has been demonstrated to elicit additional cognitive processes, which may involve returning to the level of impressions. This capacity of natural language renders it not only suitable for interpersonal communication but also enables dialogue with the self. In the modern era, individuals invariably engage in self-dialogue during the thought process. Natural language has been demonstrated to function as a catalyst for conscious thought.

In the disciplines of logic, mathematics, and various sciences, symbolic activities are defined as the systematic application of substitution to simulate the objects under study, as well as their relationships and movements. The pivotal argument here is that early humans employed pebbles or sticks for counting and calculation, which was merely a simulation of other discrete entities using a type of discrete entity that was readily manipulable. Arithmetic can be defined as the symbolic simulation of counting and calculating using pebbles or sticks, which gave rise to the mode of substitution-computation. Logic employs this mode to transform the processes of inference and proof into a form of computation. Subsequently, this mode became increasingly widespread through the application of logic and mathematics. Mathematical formulae are employed in numerous scientific disciplines to model the laws that govern them. Through computations enabled by these models, the derived expressions establish a consistent mapping with phenomena within the domain. The validity of the mappings is ultimately ascertained through the implementation of measurements. 

The development of modern science is contingent upon mathematics. Mathematics itself originated from the simulation of external objects, their relationships, and movements. Nevertheless, its subsequent evolution was more significantly influenced by formal thinking. This cognitive process unfolds within scenarios devised by symbols and their interrelationships, and can be regarded as a clear manifestation of symbolic intelligence. For instance, the concepts of computational reversibility and closure are achieved by constructing additional quantities and computational types. It is precisely through this more pure symbolic thinking that mathematics has continually developed and achieved a universal form. Consequently, this enables us to transcend the limitations of common sense and natural language expression, attaining the formidable knowledge we possess today.

It is important to recognize that when symbolic activity becomes a part of human intelligence, the capacity to manipulate symbols solely in the mind is limited. This limitation manifests most distinctly in the domain of mental arithmetic. The utilization of paper and a pen is imperative for the execution of comprehensive written symbol tasks. In the field of computing, the creation of specialized tools to perform these tasks is a more effective approach.

The earliest methods of counting and calculation in history involved the use of small stones or sticks. As the paper-and-pencil system matured, calculations increasingly shifted towards manipulating symbols on paper. Subsequently, the advent of calculation tools gradually superseded the practice of performing calculations on paper. Nevertheless, the evolution of computer programming languages and software applications is intended to delineate the capabilities and potential operations of such machines through the utilization of symbols. This practice bears a resemblance to the early use of arithmetic symbols in simulating counting and calculation with pebbles.

The present study examines the history of computational automation from the perspective of the interaction between computational tools and paper-based symbolic computation. This exploration reveals the aspects of modern theoretical computer models that align with the notion that computation is based on substitution. Moreover, it introduces the concept of the second medium, namely the physical objects representing numerical values that are manipulated on computational tools.

The necessity for computational tools arose from the demand for increased automation in calculations. Conventionally, the primary applications of computers have been in the domains of engineering and technical data processing. Nevertheless, Microsoft Office has been a consistently significant application. Within the context of this book, computational tools are to be regarded as media tools. The primary objective of these tools should be to provide comprehensive support for all human language and parole activities. The book argues that the evolution of computing machines towards language machines is foreseeable within the contemporary technological milieu. 

In the contemporary era, characterized by the advent of large language models, the realm of automatic symbol processing has transcended the confines of computational operations. This book also addresses this topic. Firstly, the content of this book provides a distinct and broad context for understanding LLMs. Secondly, it offers an analytical evaluation of current LLMs. The capabilities of LLMs are primarily reflected in their ability to synthesize existing knowledge, which can result in economically impactful applications. Nevertheless, when considering the matter of attaining AGI, it is challenging to assert that LLMs possess the requisite core functionalities. 

Notwithstanding its hypothetical nature, the book explores the concept of the language machine and, in the process, deepens the earlier viewpoints. The overarching approach is to pursue technical implementation on the premise of achieving consistency between machine behavior and human symbolic behavior. This includes the achievement of automatic computation through physical forms of substitution and the reflection of this ability in a corresponding language. Moreover, a connection mechanism of symbols is employed to record the outcomes of symbolic activities. This can be regarded as a model of symbolic activities. Consequently, it becomes possible to derive applications that can substitute for specific human symbolic activities. The discussion also addresses epistemological questions, such as the extent to which human symbolic activity is a physical manipulation of symbolic medium and what leaps in human intelligence can provide. One conclusion of this section is that the implementation of language machines has the potential to provide a foundation for the co-evolution of human and machine intelligence.

This section of the book explores the concept of the language machine from the perspective of facilitating the comprehensive utilization of existing written symbols. Technological innovation has the potential to engender significant further transformations. Firstly, it is important to note that symbols become input symbols rather than written symbols. The machine's capabilities in input, display, recording, and communication can be leveraged to explore the potential for input symbols to transcend their traditional discrete or static nature. The production and reading of symbols may also no longer be linear, and so on.

From the perspective of diachronic linguistics, when examined over a longer time span, the viewpoint of this book can be articulated as follows: the essence of language is to facilitate progress in the use of symbols through improvements or innovations in the symbolic medium system driven by technological advances. The medium system of visual symbols is selectively constructed; there is no ultimate mode of symbol usage, and the same applies to our intelligent applications.
This article is intended to serve as a preliminary introduction and discussion.
